image:../images/image1.png[image,width=793,height=1122]

== Asset Administration Shell Reading Guide

Aim of this document

Over the course of the last years IDTA and related organizations have
published numerous papers concerning the Asset Administration Shell.
This document acts as a guide by recommending selected „must-read”
documents for different reader groups and will be updated regularly.

Goals of Industrie 4.0

Industrie 4.0 (I4.0) refers to the intelligent networking of machines
and processes for industry with the help of information and
communication technology. Today’s rigid and strictly defined value
chains are replaced by flexible, highly dynamic and globally connected
value networks with new forms of cooperation. The Asset Administration
Shell helps implementing Digital Twins for I4.0 and creating
interoperability across the solutions of different suppliers.

Asset Administration Shell in a nutshell

The Asset Administration Shell (AAS) is the digital representation of an
asset. The AAS consists of a number of Submodels in which all the
information and functionalities of a given asset – including its
features, characteristics, properties, statuses, parameters, measurement
data and capabilities – can be described. It allows for the use of
different communication channels and applications and serves as the link
between objects and the connected, digital and distributed world.

The structure of the AAS is defined via a technology independent
metamodel and several technology specific serialization mappings such as
XML, JSON or RDF. Its contents are defined via domain- or
application-specific Submodel templates.

The interaction with the AAS can follow different patterns which have
different technical requirements, i.e. file exchange, server-client and
peer-to-peer interaction (Figure 1).

image:../images/image2.jpeg[Ein
Bild, das Text, Screenshot, Diagramm, Design enthält. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=297,height=187]

Figure 1: AAS interaction patterns

Recommended documents

For this reading guide the documents have been sorted by interest groups
rather than topics. In some cases, only specific pages or sections are
recommended reading material.

* *Where to start:* If you have never heard of the AAS
* *For the generally interested reader:* If you want to learn more about
the subject
* *For decision makers:* If you are interested in the business side of
I4.0
* *For software developers and architects:* If you want to know how to
create software for the AAS
* *For users of the AAS and domain experts:* If you are interested in
using the AAS for specific tasks
* *Security and AI:* If you want to deep dive into these special topics.

Where to start

When completely new to the topic of I4.0 and the AAS we highly recommend
visiting the website of the Platt-form Industrie 4.0 [1]. Then start
with the Two-Pager [2] and the presentation slides [3]. The first few
slides of the Presentation [4] cover general AAS topics, later slides
introduce some advanced topics. All these should pro-vide a brief and
quick introduction into the topic in gene-ral. For a deep dive [5] gives
a comprehensive overview of recent and current activities of the
Plattform I4.0.

For the generally interested reader

I4.0 has undergone a long journey, but [6] shows on a single page how
things developed and how it all fits together. [7] gives a condensed
overview of the AAS concepts and serves in many ways as a leading
picture. [8] summarizes the major technical aspects and different shapes
of the AAS. [9] is recommended, because it covers all major aspects of
I4.0 (including finding use cases, creating semantic models, and
operation) by using a drive as an example. The described concepts can
easily be transferred to sensors and actors in general.
https://fluidtechnik40.de/en/ is an initiative of the VDMA with an
overview, use cases and examples.

For decision makers

[10] includes a detailed list of technical criteria that need to be
fulfilled for an I4.0 component. It also includes a technology roadmap
and lists several examples of commercially available products that
fulfil these criteria. [16] introduces an initiative to utilize the AAS
to provide a Digital Product Passport including the Product Carbon
Footprint with the aim to fulfil future requirements of the EU Green
Deal.

The analysis in [21] aimes at giving companies orientation when
designing their digital business models using 22 practical examples.
Initiatives like https://catena-x.net/en and Manufacturing-X are
applying the AAS as one of their core technologies.

For software developers and architects

The most important documents are the AAS Specifications found on [12].
They are divided into multiple parts and specify all aspects of the
metamodel, the API, AASX file format, etc. [13] describes the possible
workflows and necessary working steps to create a Submodel template. For
implementations the open source projects on
https://github.com/admin-shell-io and others (see below) are highly
recommended. Because the recent release of the specification has
introduced some significant changes, we recommend taking a look at the
tutorial [23]. As an overview [8] describes the different shapes of the
AAS from a technical perspective including security. The first part of
the international standard IEC 63278 "Asset Administration Shell for
industrial applications" has been published. Further parts are in
progress. [11] creates an understanding of how the three elements
capabilities, skills and services can be used for new production
concepts.

image:../images/image3.jpeg[Ein
Bild, das Text, Himmel enthält. Automatisch generierte
Beschreibung,width=297,height=362]

For users of the AAS and domain experts

If you are interested in using or creating AAS we recommend starting by
looking into the software tool AASX package explorer (see below) and the
screencasts at http://admin-shell-io.com/screencasts/. New Submodel
templates are continuously being released and are available on the
website of the IDTA
https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/en/content-hub/submodels. Documents
[11] and [15] might also be of interest. [13] describes how to create a
new Submodel template. [14] shows best practice patterns for the
implementation of AAS. It provides practical guidance on how to model
the AAS (including AAS for assets composed of multiple assets) and how
to use it in applications.

Security and AI

[17] describes requirements and implementations of a secure
communication in the engineering process. [18] explains different secure
data access architectures and looks at questions regarding at
implementation and applicability. [19] focusses on the application of AI
in industrial production and analyses different use cases for potential
impact and questions. [11] and [22] discuss the means of capabilities,
skills and services to provide standardized information about and access
to asset functionalities.

Tools, examples and prototypes

The website https://github.com/eclipse-aaspe/aaspe contains the latest
version of the *AASX package explorer*, which can be used to create,
edit and view AAS file serializations (*.aasx). The site
https://github.com/admin-shell-io includes the *AASX-server* as code,
binaries or pre-built docker images making AASX packages accessible via
standardized APIs, a highly recommended FAQ with best practices and
further resources.

The Eclipse Digital Twin Top-Level Project found at
https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/dt is a collaborative, open source
initiative at the Eclipse Foundation fostering the development of
reference implementations for the AAS activities driven by the IDTA.
Eclipse BaSyx (https://eclipse.dev/basyx/) is an open source AAS
middleware. https://admin-shell-io.com/ provides various tools and
examples including a running AAS server with a web interface and AAS for
exemplary products. However, not all examples have been updated to v3.0
of the AAS specification, yet.

== 

== References

[arabic]
. „What is Industrie 4.0?”: https://bit.ly/3kaRz2N.
. „The Asset Administration Shell: Implementing digital twins for use in
Industrie 4.0, A starter kit for developers”, 12/2019:
https://bit.ly/3kZZSPl.
. „The digital twin in Industrie 4.0 - A short introduction to
properties, submodels & Asset Administration Shells (AAS)”, 05/2021:
https://bit.ly/32FVdOf.%20[https://bit.ly/32FVdOf.]
. „Details of the Administration Shell - from idea to implementation”,
07/2019: https://bit.ly/2H8c2Hn.
. "Fortschrittsbericht 2023. Industrie 4.0: Auf dem Weg zur intelligent
vernetzten Industrie." (German only), 07/2023: https://bit.ly/3MfKrCi.
. Industrie 4.0 Timeline, 2024: https://bit.ly/3Bpq5DT.
. „Structure of the Administration Shell”, 04/2018:
https://bit.ly/34jbHdo.
. „What is the Asset Administration Shell from a technical perspective?”
04/2021: https://bit.ly/3w46sPz.
. „Drive 4.0 - Vision becomes Reality”, 04/2018: https://bit.ly/388ST35.
. „Which criteria do Industrie 4.0 products need to fulfil?”, 12/2020:
https://bit.ly/2Tdti0d.
. "Information Model for Capabilities, Skills & Services", 08/2022:
https://bit.ly/3MfKDl0.
. "AAS Specifications" landing page:
https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/en/content-hub/aasspecifications.
. "How to Create a Submodel Template Specification", 12/2022:
https://bit.ly/3QyV5GM.
. „AAS Reference Modelling”, 12/2021: https://bit.ly/3qAm4U3.
. "Industrie 4.0 Communication Guideline", 07/2023:
https://bit.ly/49baG6y.
. "ZVEI-Show-Case PCF@Control Cabinet - Product Carbon Footprint
Calculation of a Control Cabinet using the Asset Administration Shell",
05/2022: https://bit.ly/3RYoEz4.
. „Secure Download Service”, 10/2020: https://bit.ly/3cPSq6A.
. „Access control for Industrie 4.0 components for application by
manufacturers, operators and integrators”, 12/2018:
https://bit.ly/37qAJJQ.
. „AI Application Guide“, 09/2020: https://bit.ly/3KbCIT4.
. „German Standardization Roadmap Industrie 4.0”, 03/2020:
https://bit.ly/3dKrRQj.
. „Digital business models for Industrie 4.0”, 02/2019:
https://bit.ly/2FOroA6.
. „Describing Capabilities of Industrie 4.0 Components”, 12/2020:
https://bit.ly/3tK1Uao.
. AAS Tutorials" [Videos], IDTA: https://bit.ly/3DVsCXQ.

image:../images/image4.png[image,width=792,height=1121]
image:../images/image1.png[image,width=793,height=1122]

== Asset Administration Shell Reading Guide

Aim of this document

Over the course of the last years IDTA and related organizations have
published numerous papers concerning the Asset Administration Shell.
This document acts as a guide by recommending selected „must-read”
documents for different reader groups and will be updated regularly.

Goals of Industrie 4.0

Industrie 4.0 (I4.0) refers to the intelligent networking of machines
and processes for industry with the help of information and
communication technology. Today’s rigid and strictly defined value
chains are replaced by flexible, highly dynamic and globally connected
value networks with new forms of cooperation. The Asset Administration
Shell helps implementing Digital Twins for I4.0 and creating
interoperability across the solutions of different suppliers.

Asset Administration Shell in a nutshell

The Asset Administration Shell (AAS) is the digital representation of an
asset. The AAS consists of a number of Submodels in which all the
information and functionalities of a given asset – including its
features, characteristics, properties, statuses, parameters, measurement
data and capabilities – can be described. It allows for the use of
different communication channels and applications and serves as the link
between objects and the connected, digital and distributed world.

The structure of the AAS is defined via a technology independent
metamodel and several technology specific serialization mappings such as
XML, JSON or RDF. Its contents are defined via domain- or
application-specific Submodel templates.

The interaction with the AAS can follow different patterns which have
different technical requirements, i.e. file exchange, server-client and
peer-to-peer interaction (Figure 1).

image:../images/image2.jpeg[Ein
Bild, das Text, Screenshot, Diagramm, Design enthält. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=297,height=187]

Figure 1: AAS interaction patterns

Recommended documents

For this reading guide the documents have been sorted by interest groups
rather than topics. In some cases, only specific pages or sections are
recommended reading material.

* *Where to start:* If you have never heard of the AAS
* *For the generally interested reader:* If you want to learn more about
the subject
* *For decision makers:* If you are interested in the business side of
I4.0
* *For software developers and architects:* If you want to know how to
create software for the AAS
* *For users of the AAS and domain experts:* If you are interested in
using the AAS for specific tasks
* *Security and AI:* If you want to deep dive into these special topics.

Where to start

When completely new to the topic of I4.0 and the AAS we highly recommend
visiting the website of the Platt-form Industrie 4.0 [1]. Then start
with the Two-Pager [2] and the presentation slides [3]. The first few
slides of the Presentation [4] cover general AAS topics, later slides
introduce some advanced topics. All these should pro-vide a brief and
quick introduction into the topic in gene-ral. For a deep dive [5] gives
a comprehensive overview of recent and current activities of the
Plattform I4.0.

For the generally interested reader

I4.0 has undergone a long journey, but [6] shows on a single page how
things developed and how it all fits together. [7] gives a condensed
overview of the AAS concepts and serves in many ways as a leading
picture. [8] summarizes the major technical aspects and different shapes
of the AAS. [9] is recommended, because it covers all major aspects of
I4.0 (including finding use cases, creating semantic models, and
operation) by using a drive as an example. The described concepts can
easily be transferred to sensors and actors in general.
https://fluidtechnik40.de/en/ is an initiative of the VDMA with an
overview, use cases and examples.

For decision makers

[10] includes a detailed list of technical criteria that need to be
fulfilled for an I4.0 component. It also includes a technology roadmap
and lists several examples of commercially available products that
fulfil these criteria. [16] introduces an initiative to utilize the AAS
to provide a Digital Product Passport including the Product Carbon
Footprint with the aim to fulfil future requirements of the EU Green
Deal.

The analysis in [21] aimes at giving companies orientation when
designing their digital business models using 22 practical examples.
Initiatives like https://catena-x.net/en and Manufacturing-X are
applying the AAS as one of their core technologies.

For software developers and architects

The most important documents are the AAS Specifications found on [12].
They are divided into multiple parts and specify all aspects of the
metamodel, the API, AASX file format, etc. [13] describes the possible
workflows and necessary working steps to create a Submodel template. For
implementations the open source projects on
https://github.com/admin-shell-io and others (see below) are highly
recommended. Because the recent release of the specification has
introduced some significant changes, we recommend taking a look at the
tutorial [23]. As an overview [8] describes the different shapes of the
AAS from a technical perspective including security. The first part of
the international standard IEC 63278 "Asset Administration Shell for
industrial applications" has been published. Further parts are in
progress. [11] creates an understanding of how the three elements
capabilities, skills and services can be used for new production
concepts.

image:../images/image3.jpeg[Ein
Bild, das Text, Himmel enthält. Automatisch generierte
Beschreibung,width=297,height=362]

For users of the AAS and domain experts

If you are interested in using or creating AAS we recommend starting by
looking into the software tool AASX package explorer (see below) and the
screencasts at http://admin-shell-io.com/screencasts/. New Submodel
templates are continuously being released and are available on the
website of the IDTA
https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/en/content-hub/submodels. Documents
[11] and [15] might also be of interest. [13] describes how to create a
new Submodel template. [14] shows best practice patterns for the
implementation of AAS. It provides practical guidance on how to model
the AAS (including AAS for assets composed of multiple assets) and how
to use it in applications.

Security and AI

[17] describes requirements and implementations of a secure
communication in the engineering process. [18] explains different secure
data access architectures and looks at questions regarding at
implementation and applicability. [19] focusses on the application of AI
in industrial production and analyses different use cases for potential
impact and questions. [11] and [22] discuss the means of capabilities,
skills and services to provide standardized information about and access
to asset functionalities.

Tools, examples and prototypes

The website https://github.com/eclipse-aaspe/aaspe contains the latest
version of the *AASX package explorer*, which can be used to create,
edit and view AAS file serializations (*.aasx). The site
https://github.com/admin-shell-io includes the *AASX-server* as code,
binaries or pre-built docker images making AASX packages accessible via
standardized APIs, a highly recommended FAQ with best practices and
further resources.

The Eclipse Digital Twin Top-Level Project found at
https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/dt is a collaborative, open source
initiative at the Eclipse Foundation fostering the development of
reference implementations for the AAS activities driven by the IDTA.
Eclipse BaSyx (https://eclipse.dev/basyx/) is an open source AAS
middleware. https://admin-shell-io.com/ provides various tools and
examples including a running AAS server with a web interface and AAS for
exemplary products. However, not all examples have been updated to v3.0
of the AAS specification, yet.

== 

== References

[arabic]
. „What is Industrie 4.0?”: https://bit.ly/3kaRz2N.
. „The Asset Administration Shell: Implementing digital twins for use in
Industrie 4.0, A starter kit for developers”, 12/2019:
https://bit.ly/3kZZSPl.
. „The digital twin in Industrie 4.0 - A short introduction to
properties, submodels & Asset Administration Shells (AAS)”, 05/2021:
https://bit.ly/32FVdOf.%20[https://bit.ly/32FVdOf.]
. „Details of the Administration Shell - from idea to implementation”,
07/2019: https://bit.ly/2H8c2Hn.
. "Fortschrittsbericht 2023. Industrie 4.0: Auf dem Weg zur intelligent
vernetzten Industrie." (German only), 07/2023: https://bit.ly/3MfKrCi.
. Industrie 4.0 Timeline, 2024: https://bit.ly/3Bpq5DT.
. „Structure of the Administration Shell”, 04/2018:
https://bit.ly/34jbHdo.
. „What is the Asset Administration Shell from a technical perspective?”
04/2021: https://bit.ly/3w46sPz.
. „Drive 4.0 - Vision becomes Reality”, 04/2018: https://bit.ly/388ST35.
. „Which criteria do Industrie 4.0 products need to fulfil?”, 12/2020:
https://bit.ly/2Tdti0d.
. "Information Model for Capabilities, Skills & Services", 08/2022:
https://bit.ly/3MfKDl0.
. "AAS Specifications" landing page:
https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/en/content-hub/aasspecifications.
. "How to Create a Submodel Template Specification", 12/2022:
https://bit.ly/3QyV5GM.
. „AAS Reference Modelling”, 12/2021: https://bit.ly/3qAm4U3.
. "Industrie 4.0 Communication Guideline", 07/2023:
https://bit.ly/49baG6y.
. "ZVEI-Show-Case PCF@Control Cabinet - Product Carbon Footprint
Calculation of a Control Cabinet using the Asset Administration Shell",
05/2022: https://bit.ly/3RYoEz4.
. „Secure Download Service”, 10/2020: https://bit.ly/3cPSq6A.
. „Access control for Industrie 4.0 components for application by
manufacturers, operators and integrators”, 12/2018:
https://bit.ly/37qAJJQ.
. „AI Application Guide“, 09/2020: https://bit.ly/3KbCIT4.
. „German Standardization Roadmap Industrie 4.0”, 03/2020:
https://bit.ly/3dKrRQj.
. „Digital business models for Industrie 4.0”, 02/2019:
https://bit.ly/2FOroA6.
. „Describing Capabilities of Industrie 4.0 Components”, 12/2020:
https://bit.ly/3tK1Uao.
. AAS Tutorials" [Videos], IDTA: https://bit.ly/3DVsCXQ.

image:../images/image4.png[image,width=792,height=1121]

 git config --global user.email "sandeeprudra30@gmail.com"
  git config --global user.name "Sandeep Rudra"
